# Jekyll ANU Website Template Repo

**Note**: this template repo is still under construction, and is occasionally
broken as we try new (and better) ways of doing things. If you're looking to
create a new Jekyll ANU website right now, then jump into the [CECS Jekyll web
support channel][Teams web link] and ask for assistance.

[Teams web link]: https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3aIcnInMyxTJ26Ik8FrUs9SefrG_9seawpDu95NmKwiIE1%40thread.tacv2/General?groupId=dab190b1-14f2-40cf-b384-ee00c63d2019&tenantId=e37d725c-ab5c-4624-9ae5-f0533e486437

This is a template repo for creating webpages using the new Jekyll ANU theme.
You may fork it/copy it into your own webpage repo and adapt to your needs. This
template repo is sort of like the 'Course In a Box' repo that existed for an
older version of the theme. You may use it for any type of page, including but
not limited to:

- course websites, e.g. [COMP2300](https://cs.anu.edu.au/courses/comp2300/)
- research group websites, e.g. the [c/c/c studio](https://cs.anu.edu.au/code-creativity-culture/)
- School websites, e.g. [School of Cybernetics](https://cybernetics.anu.edu.au/)

To use this template as the basis for your new site, you should copy/fork this
template, modify the structure and page names to fit your needs, then copy over
the content from your old page (or create it fresh if it does not exist),
adapting to any new requirements or formatting that the new theme permits.

If you require any advanced functionality, such as additional features, more
formatting options, or a slightly different look, this can be done through a few
different ways, the easiest one being through the `_includes` folder (you can
explore the `_includes` folder in this repo if you want to see concrete
examples), which allows you to bring in `html` documents, or override existing
ones in the theme.

## Documentation

The documentation for the theme is available online at the [CECS Jekyll theme
docs](https://cs.anu.edu.au/docs/gitlab-pages/). If there is any information
missing or you would like additional help, please do not be afraid to contact
the [CECS Jekyll web support teams channel][teams web link].

## Licence

MIT
